Bibliography
Americans and the Arts [1973 - 1992]

This bibliography includes published and unpublished works that are related 
to ICPSR study 35575. It includes works that are based on primary
or secondary analysis of the data, or which describe or critique those
data or the collection methodology. 

If you publish a work or know of other works that are based on these data,
please send the complete citation and name of the ICPSR study used to:
icpsr-biblio-notify@umich.edu 


1. Center for Arts and Cultural Policy Studies, "How Supportive Are
Americans of Arts Education in the Public Schools?." Updated 2004,.
Full text: http://www.princeton.edu/culturalpolicy/quickfacts/policy/harris92.html

2. Feld, Alan L.; O'Hare, Michael; Schuster, J. Mark, Patrons Despite
Themselves: Taxpayers and Arts Policy. Philadelphia, PA: University of
Pennsylvania Press, 1983.
Full text: http://www.princeton.edu/culturalpolicy/quickfacts/policy/harris92.html

3. Hendon, William S.; Costa, Frank; Rosenberg, Robert Allan, "The general
public and the art museum: Case studies of visitors to several institutions
identify characteristics of their publics." American Journal of Economics
and Sociology. Apr 1989, 48, (2), 231 - 243. DOI: 10.1111/j.1536-
7150.1989.tb02120.x
Full text: http://www.princeton.edu/culturalpolicy/quickfacts/policy/harris92.html

4. Hughes, Michael; Peterson, Richard A., "Isolating cultural choice
patterns in the U.S. population." American Behavioral Scientist. Mar/Apr
1983, 26, (4), 459 - 478.
Full text: http://www.princeton.edu/culturalpolicy/quickfacts/policy/harris92.html

5. Lena, C. Jennifer, Entitled: Discriminating Tastes and the Expansion of
the Arts. Princeton University Press, 2019.
Full text: muse.jhu.edu/book/66953

6. National Research Center of the Arts, "Americans and the Arts: A Survey
of Public Opinion." Washington, DC: Americans for the Arts (formerly
Associated Councils for the Arts), Dec 31, 1974.
Abstract: http://www.americansforthearts.org/by-program/reports-and-data/legislation-policy/naappd/americans-and-the-arts-a-survey-of-public-opinion

7. Pettit, Becky, "Resources for studying public participation in and
attitudes towards the arts." Poetics. Jun 2000, 27, (5-6), 351 - 395. DOI:
10.1016/S0304-422X(00)00008-5
Abstract: http://www.americansforthearts.org/by-program/reports-and-data/legislation-policy/naappd/americans-and-the-arts-a-survey-of-public-opinion

8. Schuster, J. Mark Davidson, "Perspectives on the American Audience for
Art Museums: A Research Monograph Based on the 1985 Survey of Public
Participation in the Arts. Revised Edition." Feb 1988.
Full text PDF: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED294780.pdf
This monograph utilizes data from the 1985 Survey of Public Participation
in the Arts (SPPA '85) to explore the audience composition of United States
art museums and galleries. Part 1 focuses on: (1) demographic variables
affecting U.S. adult attendance rates; (2) a comparison of the SPPA '85
research data and the 1984 "Americans and the Arts" studies; and (3) a
comparison of United States, Great Britain, France, Sweden, and Canada
(Quebec) attendance patterns. Part 2 examines barriers to art museum or
gallery attendance, while part 3 explores audience socialization factors
that affect attendance. Part 4 presents an audience profile based on
demographic characteristics and compares it to the general population's
profile. An appendix describes an exploratory analysis of the relationship
between participation rates and the number of art museums. Tables and
graphs are included. (JHP)

9. Schuster, J. Mark Davidson, "The Audience for American Art Museums."
Research Division Report #23. Washington, DC: National Endowment for the
Arts, Research Division, 1992.
Full text PDF: http://arts.gov/sites/default/files/NEA-Research-Report-23.pdf
This study uses data from the 1985 Survey of Public Participation in the
Arts (SPPA) to explore the composition of the audience for art museums and
art galleries in the United States. Organized into four parts, part 1
reports that when asked if they had visited an art museum or art gallery in
the 12 months preceding their 1985 SPPA interview, 22 percent of the adult
population said that they had. The report goes on to present art museum
participation rates across a variety of demographic variables--income,
education, age, gender, race, geographic distribution, and occupation. This
section also compares the 1985 SPPA participation rates with those of the
Americans and the Arts Studies, and with participation rates from Great
Britain, France, Sweden, and Quebec. A statistical model designed to
predict the probability of attendance based on demographic factors also is
developed in part 1, but this model's low predictive ability leads to the
conclusion that other variables need to be examined. Part 2 of the report
focuses on three SPPA socialization questions that are most likely to be
linked to attendance at art museums: whether or not, and at what ages, the
respondent had ever taken lessons in the visual arts; whether or not, and
at what ages, the respondent had taken art appreciation classes; and
whether or not, and the frequency with which, parents had taken the
respondent to museums. An analysis of these questions reveals that all
three of these factors show a strong relationship with increased
attendance. Part 3 of the report examines unsatisfied demand and barriers
to attendance. Part 4 presents a profile of the museum audience and
examines how the demographic characteristics of the SPPA respondents are
distributed among the museum audience and how this audience profile
compares to the profile of the general population. An appendix that
presents the mathematical results from the three logit analyses (a
variation of regression analysis) that were conducted with ..
